Romans chapter 6 verse 1 and it reads as follows.
What shall we say then?
Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound?
God forbid, how shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein?
Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into His death.
Therefore we are buried with Him by baptism into death, that like Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.
For if we even planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection.
Knowing this, that our old man has crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.
For he that is dead is freed from sin.
Now, if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him.
Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dies no more, death has no more dominion over him.
for in that he died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God.
Likewise, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body that ye should obey it in the lust thereof.
Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God
as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.
For sin shall not have dominion over you, for ye are not under law, but under grace."
Let's pray before again today's message.
Dear God, thank you for your word, the Bible.
Thank you for gathering us here to study the Bible, to learn from your Bible, to hear your precious words.
May your words fill our heart.
May your words inspire us.
And may you fill me with your spirit to speak your words today.
We pray all these things in Jesus' name.
Amen.
So last time we were talking about the buzzword of the day, the buzzword is normal.
And the return to normal and getting back to normal, right?
That's what everyone thinks about and wants to do and says over and over again.
But even as we see this week in the news, we know that it's not that easy, right?
That that's not the way it works.
There's no reset button.
There's no, oh, we're going back to the way it was end of story, right?
We saw in the news this week, oh, there's virus popping up again.
People are saying you got to wear masks again and this, that and the other thing.
And what I point out last time is for things like that,
there's no return to normal.
It's more of like a new normal.
We adjust and we go forward, right?
We adjust and we go forward.
Just like we would say, oh, you know what?
Chinese school is not gonna be exactly the same as it used to be.
What happens?
We still gotta go forward.
We adjust and we go forward, right?
And that's what's happening in all of our works, our schools, and all of that.
And like we said, also here at church, we adjust and we go forward.
There's a new normal.
But as we are focusing on the word normal,
I pointed out that, you know, when it comes to God and being a Christian, there are certain things that should be normal, right?
Shouldn't there be some universal normal that exists?
That was the case since the time the Bible is written, up to the time of now.
Some things change, right?
If you took Paul in Bible times,
and put him in this audience right now, he would say this is not very normal for him, right?
He would say, oh, a lot of times we've met in church outdoors, right?
Or he would say, oh, you guys are wearing clothes that are not normal to me, right?
Or you guys are singing these songs, these songs do not exist even when I was doing the church back in the first century, right?
A lot of the practices change, the practices change over time.
Even a hundred years ago, church was a lot different, right?
but the Christian heart, the Christian heart hopefully should not change.
The stuff that Paul wrote even back 2000 years ago in the book of Romans should be the same for us.
It should be normal for us.
And what he pointed out was something that was pointed out in this book I mentioned last time by this
Chinese author, Watchmen Ni, right, in his book, The Normal Christian Life.
You point out some of these things.
And I add some comments to it last time.
I started talking about it because these are kind of like universal truths, I would say, that even some guy writing 100 years ago is accurate, and even Paul writing 2,000 years ago is accurate.
And here were the certain truths that we pointed out about the Christian experience.
We said, first, that the normal Christian is a sinner.
We all start off as sinners.
There's none righteous.
No, not one.
For all of sin becomes short the glory of God.
That so much is certain.
And because we're all sinners, we all need the blood of Christ to wash away our sins, right?
What can wash away my sins?
Nothing but the blood of Jesus.
It's Jesus Christ that watches us clean.
And not just once,
But over and over again does Jesus wash us clean with his cleansing blood, his miraculous blood that saves us from sin.
But even with that miraculous blood, what happens to us as Christians?
We still face temptations daily.
It doesn't end.
It's not a total, like, oh, we become like totally
Holy now, right?
And we never ever think about bad stuff and we never do bad stuff ever again.
No, no, no, no, no.
Every day continues to be a struggle.
We still have our fleshly selves.
We just struggle to deal with it and live with it as Christians.
And what I talked about last time as the answer, what's the solution to this?
How do we get past this sin?
Temptation for sin, which we all still fall into, right?
And the answer we pointed out last time, and of course we ran out of time talking about it, was abiding in Christ, abiding in Christ.
And some people point out to me last time, like, oh boy, you had a pretty depressing message last time.
We ended before we had a lot to say about the good stuff going forward, right?
We talked about how man's condition is bad, right?
Today we'll go into detail about what is our hope going forward, our hope going forward.
We talked about last time, we started talking about it and it kind of rushed through a little bit, about how the normal Christian
How do we deal with sin?
How do we deal with temptation?
How do we live out that normal Christian life?
It's by abiding in Christ.
John 15.4 says this, Abide in me and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit itself, except it be able and divine.
No more can ye accept ye abide in me.
Supposed to abide in Christ.
Right?
We abide in him and he abides in us.
The secret is that we have Jesus in our heart.
That's how we triumph over everything.
We have Jesus in our heart when we get saved.
We sang the song since Jesus came into my heart.
One of that happened.
Happened when we get saved, right?
When we get saved, we have Him.
Him and all He did.
His life.
His crucifixion.
His resurrection.
We don't have to struggle for this.
It's something that comes automatically with salvation.
The word abide means to dwell, to dwell.
He lives in us, right?
He lives in our heart, right?
And our faith is what gets it there, right?
What Satan wants to do is to get us out from living with God, right?
He wants us to go back to living in our flesh.
To do what we think is the best course is, right?
To follow what our desire is, our need, right?
That's Satan's way.
The more and more we go to that and follow that, the more we're living outside Christ, right?
The more we're dwelling outside of the Spirit.
But God says the secret is we stand with Him through all things, right?
That if we have that, that
that grounded attitude in faith, in faith, we have everything.
It unlocks everything.
It makes everything easy.
The less faith we have, the less we stand with Jesus, the harder everything gets, the more struggle everything gets, the more difficult it is.
So we're supposed to turn everything, all our thoughts, to abiding with Christ.
to stay with Him, to not do our own things, right?
Not do our own things.
We rely on Jesus because no matter what it is, no matter how educated you think you are, oh, I know a lot of Bible, right?
I can figure this out on my own, right?
Oh, I've been a Christian for 20 years.
I can figure this out on my own or whatever.
No matter how much you think that you yourself can do it all alone.
You can't.
Because when we rely on ourselves, we're relying on our own flesh.
Our flesh is part of the kingdom of this world and not part of the kingdom of heaven.
We want to follow Jesus Christ.
Jesus Christ and His Spirit.
The heavenly way.
The best way.
the right way.
So a lot of times you think of stuff and says like, oh, is this thing good or is this thing thing bad?
Maybe the better question and the better way to look at it is, is this something of my flesh or something of the spirit?
Are we abiding in Christ when we do this thing?
Or are we not?
That's maybe the way we'd think about this, think about this.
because Jesus, when he died on that cross, he intended for us to be able to set aside the old way, the old self, and have a new birth.
Right?
Ye must be born again, he said.
And if we are born again, risen with him, and living that wonderful, glorious life.
Now, as he pointed out, when we think about his life,
and his death and his crucifixion that brings us naturally to the subject that should be normal for all Christians.
And that's baptism.
Baptism.
See, how does this fit in?
Well, we read in verse three and four here.
This is what Paul wrote, right?
It says, are you ignorant that all that, all we who were baptized in the Christ Jesus were baptized into his death.
We were buried therefore with him through baptism unto death.
Right?
Baptism, as you guys hopefully know, is symbolic.
It's a symbolic of what?
We see this every year when we have our baptism, right?
It's about the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus Christ.
When you go down into that water, right?
It's like dying.
When you come out of that water, it's like being resurrected like how Christ was.
Now here's a very, very simple idea.
Who gets buried?
We all know who gets buried.
People who get buried are dead, right?
That's a great connection right there.
That burial going under the water when we are baptized signifies the death.
The death of what?
The death of our fleshly selves.
The death of our old self.
When Christians get baptized, they symbolically tell the world, my old self, that old way, that old sinful way is drowned.
And what comes out of the water?
A new self, just like how Christ was resurrected.
Back to life, new life.
A new life that's together with Christ.
In verse five, it says this.
It says, we have been planted together in the likeness of his death.
right after his death, we are planted together.
We are united with Jesus Christ.
That baptism is an acknowledgement.
It's an acknowledgement that our new life, the saved life, the Christian life is the one where we are together with Jesus.
Our old self is that.
Our new self is unified with Jesus Christ.
And that's a symbolism of baptism.
And pretty simply,
And I have to say it pretty starkly, if you are a Christian and you cannot embrace that symbolism, if you yourself cannot say, yeah, that's something I believe in, that I want to show the world, that I want to be dead of my old self and united with him in the cross, you're going to have a hard time living that out, aren't you?
You're going to say, oh, I do want to live.
that great Christian life where I'm with Jesus and Jesus is guiding me and I'm free from sin.
But if you can't even take that first step to say that I'm going to try to do that symbolically and get baptized, you're going to have a hard time doing that.
In the Bible days, people got baptized pretty shortly after they got saved.
Why is that?
Because they knew that they wanted to live that Christ-centered life going forward.
They were ready to do that.
And so baptism was no problem to say it symbolically.
Obviously, it's a lot harder to do it in reality, right?
But at least symbolically, they were ready.
Friend, are you all baptized?
Are you baptized?
Have you at least committed yourself symbolically to say, I want to live that Christian life, that good Christian life, the one that's free from sin, that's filled with the spirit?
If not, ought to get baptized.
We didn't have our baptism last year because of COVID-19.
Hopefully, we'll have a baptism this year.
If you're not baptized,
get baptized.
If you want to live the normal Christian life, the most normal thing a Christian can do is get baptized.
But like I said, that's just the symbolism.
What about the reality?
How do we do it then, right?
So now we're baptized.
We want to live out that unified life in Christ.
What do we do?
How do we get ourselves to be holy, consecrated, all those buzzwords you hear all these Christians say over and over again.
Well, let's look at verses 12 and 13.
12 and 13 say this, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, right?
So we don't want sin to reign in our body.
What do we do instead?
That you shall obey the lustre of neither yield yourselves as members, as instruments of unrighteousness on the sin, but yield yourselves unto God as those that are alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God, right?
So you get baptized, you're crucified with him, you're buried with him, you're raised with him, right?
So how do we live with him?
And the key word that pops up in these two verses we just read, the one that calls out to me that we see several times is the word yield, yield.
How do we get holy, right?
What is holiness, right?
Many people think holy is all doing something.
You read your Bible.
That's how you get holy, right?
And your Bible's not wrong.
I'm not saying it's wrong or whatever, right?
Oh, it's by stopping to do something.
Oh, you know what?
Today, I did not swear.
Does that mean I'm holy now, right?
Stopping swearing is a good thing, right?
But what does it really mean to holy?
It's not just re-holy, it's not just a checklist like that.
What being holy means is not about doing X, Y, and Z, and make sure you're doing
this thing, that thing, and the other thing, it's actually a lot simpler.
It means are we yielding to God?
Are we being separated unto God?
Are we giving ourselves
to God.
And being separated and yielding to God doesn't mean that everyone here has to say, oh, we're all going to become missionaries tomorrow.
We're all going to become pastors tomorrow.
And that's all we do.
Our whole life is living for God.
I read my Bible 24 hours a day.
No, no, no.
It doesn't mean that.
It means that, you know, if we are yielding ourselves to God, it's saying, God, I want to do your will no matter
what it is, right?
I want to do your will as it relates to my family.
I want to do your will as it relates to my job.
I want to do your will as it relates to my church relationship, my relationship with you, my personal life, everything.
The idea is that God doesn't want any of ourselves, our flesh to remain, right?
He doesn't want us to resist him, but instead to submit to him, to submit to him.
That's the idea.
We want to have that peace of God.
We want to be free from sin.
We need to submit to Him.
And that's a hard thing.
There's a lot of Christians that will quickly say, oh yeah, I want to do God's will.
I want to do God's will, right?
Of course we want to follow God's will.
That's obvious, right?
Yes, everyone.
They're going to say yes, yes, yes.
But do they know what that means?
Do they know what that means though?
Because it's a lot easier said than done.
The idea is that we no longer look to ourselves to make the decisions and call to shots and run our lives, but instead yield all that to God and what God requires.
That's true consecration.
That's true holiness, right?
The idea to think that F in school, am I bringing glory to God?
Am I doing what God wants?
A lot of times you would say, I want to do what I want.
Oh, there's all these fun things.
I want to join this club and do the sport and whatever, whatever.
I think these are all my things.
Do we really look through it, the prism of, is this something God would want that God approves of?
Same thing with our work.
We have lots of goals in work.
I'm no different than you guys, right?
You want to make this money, get this promotion, do X, Y, and Z.
Do we ever stop to think, but is this something that God wants?
Does God want me to get X, Y, and Z, this promotion, and this raise, and this, that, and the other thing?
Even on our personal lives.
We have plenty of goals for ourselves, right?
I want to go on this fabulous vacation.
I want to buy this new house.
I want to do this, that, and that.
Those are our goals.
A lot of times there are fleshly goals.
Is it in line with what God wants?
Do we even ask that question?
Do we even think like that?
We need to refocus to think of not our desires
But God's desires, right?
There might not be anything wrong with all those things, right?
Those things might line up perfectly with what God wants.
But if we don't ask that question, we don't know.
We don't know.
We're supposed to follow God's will, right?
Because we're not ourselves anymore.
Remember, buried with Christ, new life with Jesus, follow His will.
But of course, people ask the question, well, that's not easy.
How do I follow?
God's will.
God gives us an answer.
In 1 Corinthians 316 it says this, Know ye that ye are the temple of God and that the spirit of God dwelleth in you.
God's given us the Holy Spirit to sort all this out, right?
The Holy Spirit.
The Holy Spirit's one of the greatest gifts, one of the greatest gifts that God has given to us.
We see the Holy Spirit
tore out in many ways, right?
Sometimes you see in the Bible that it's very like external, right?
Like, oh, they have the holy power, the holy spirit and they do miracles and all that kind of stuff.
But actually, while miracles and all these outward things are impressive, I think one of the greatest gifts that he gave us is having this holy spirit in our heart.
That we have Jesus with us all the time.
That we have him to talk to, to guide us, to be with us.
It's amazing.
Think about this.
In the Old Testament days, they didn't have the Holy Spirit, right?
The Holy Spirit did not descend to Pentecost.
So talking to God and having that relation with God was something only the very special, the very few people did, right?
The Moses of the world, the Elijah's of the world, they had that.
And now nobody's like you and me, we have that same power.
What a blessing.
What an honor that Jesus is with us.
all the time.
And once we have that, that Jesus spirit poured out on us, that's what guides us.
That's what gives us the answer.
That's what helps us live that spirit filled life.
Now a lot of people say this.
A lot of people say this.
Oh that sounds great, but you know what?
I have never felt the Holy Spirit in my life.
I don't know what you're talking about, right?
Like I don't feel Jesus talking to me or giving me direction or whatever.
And I think these people
may have not the exact right attitude toward this.
You see, the Holy Spirit is something that is already in us.
It's not something we need to find.
People say like, oh, if only I knew, if only I had the power of the Holy Spirit, then I could do all these great things.
You already have the power of the Holy Spirit.
Once you're saved, you get the power of Holy Spirit.
It's automatic.
Jesus came into your heart right when you were saved.
It's just that people,
realize it, right?
People don't realize it.
You don't need to go looking for God.
Remember, we said it right to start.
He abides in us.
He is right with us.
We don't need to pray.
Oh, I need to find you God.
Can't get any closer than right in your heart, right?
That's as close as it gets.
He's in there.
It's just that we need to surrender to Him.
to surrender to his power and to surrender to his will, to understand that he's in our heart.
To have that reverence, to treat our body like it is Jesus' body.
When you live your life like that, it will change you.
It should change you.
When you say, oh, this is not my body, but also Jesus' body, will you say, Jesus, I want to feed you all this alcohol and poison you?
You wouldn't want to say that, would you?
Or Jesus, I want to send you to, you know, watch all these, you know, sexually explicit movies.
Like, would you enjoy that, Jesus?
He would enjoy that.
We surrender our heart to His.
Again, it's a matter of yielding, yielding.
We yield to Him that we understand that He's with us all the time, watching with us, living with us, being with us, changing us.
Now of course this gets manifested in different ways.
I'm not gonna tell you there's just one way that the Holy Spirit gets poured out into you.
We see lots of different things, right?
For people in Bible times, like we said, like they could do, they had the power of the Holy Spirit, they could do like miracles, they could speak in tongues, they could do all these different things, right?
Maybe for each of us, how the Holy Spirit affects us is different.
So it's not as simple as saying, oh, if you have the Holy Spirit, if you're doing the good Christian thing, you're gonna get X, Y, and Z. I can't tell you what that's like.
But I can tell you this, if you are doing it, you yourself will know.
It boils down sometimes as simply as this.
As simply as this.
And maybe to general say, but are you living for the Lord or are you living for yourself?
Right?
Are you withholding stuff in your life from God?
Are you not yielding?
When you don't do that,
You don't have the spirit filled life.
You're not living the good Christian life.
You're more likely to fall in the sin and temptation.
I'll give you the most extreme example, the toughest example of yielding.
And that's, you know, and maybe you people know people like this, I definitely know people like this.
These are people that fall in love with someone who is unsaved, right?
You fall in love and it's an unsaved person.
And they might know in their mind
or know what Jesus says, and says like, you can't be an equal yoke.
But you know what they say?
They say, I love this person so much, I can't let it go.
I can't let it go.
And that's their choice that they made.
And what do I observe?
For many of these people who did this, and I have friends who are like this, they wind up not being able to live the spirit filled life, and they do that.
And they wind up, oh, following, because they followed their own heart, right?
And their own desire.
They wind up, oh, they don't go to church anymore because, you know, their husband, their wife doesn't go to church, right?
They don't do these Christian things anymore because their husband, their wife doesn't go on church anymore, right?
That's a difficult thing to yield and surrender everything, even someone you most love.
But that's what God wants from us.
That's what real yielding means.
What is it in your life that you're hanging on to, that you're hanging on that's preventing you from fully yielding to Him?
There's this pastor that told the story about how when he started off as a pastor, I heard him tell the story, he was having a hard time.
He was having a hard time.
He didn't have the power in his messages and getting people saved and all this stuff.
He didn't have the zeal for it.
He thought about what was holding him back.
From a young age, from a very young age, his dream was to get a PhD.
This is even before he became a pastor.
He wanted to be a PhD.
That was his dream.
I want to be doctor whoever.
Just love the idea of getting this title.
And even after he started being a pastor, he still was doing all these classes.
I want to get that PhD.
I want the title.
This is my thing.
I got to get it.
It's my lifelong dream.
And what he realized at some point was that the thing that was holding him back, the thing he was not yielding to God was giving up on that PhD.
He was spending so much time.
I got to do my dissertation, do my classes, and this down the other thing.
that he could not fully submit to Christ.
And he said, it was one of the hardest thing he could ever do to walk into his professors that he'd been working with for years on this dissertation to say, I'm quitting.
I'm not doing this anymore.
I'm giving it up.
And he did that.
It was hard.
But he said, you know what?
After I did that, after I gave that up, because I knew that's what God wanted for me, that's when he got true power.
to be a great pastor, to be able to give the messages that had heart and meaning and inspire that congregation.
Now, I don't know what it is in your life, but examine your life for a second and think, is there something I'm holding back from him?
What's it in my life that's preventing me from yielding to him, to living that spirit-filled life?
What is it?
Let's give it to God.
You see, normal Christian life isn't about a checklist.
We talked about all this stuff.
No word did ever say like, oh, you got to read your Bible one chapter a day.
You got to pray 10 minutes a day.
You got to do X, Y, and Z.
That's not what it's all about.
It's much simpler.
It's just about, can you rely on the Holy Spirit?
Can you yield yourself to Him?
And guess what?
Everything else follows.
If you yield yourself to the Holy Spirit, then you will read the Bible.
You will pray.
You'll get people saved.
It doesn't matter what it is, right?
It doesn't matter if for you, oh, you know, you read one chapter, you read 10 chapters, right?
Or you read five verses or whatever.
It doesn't matter.
It's not about trying to check off a box or doing this thing and the other thing.
That would all be like essentially following our flesh again, right?
To make up our own rule.
It's about following what God says, what God has placed in our heart, what Jesus has with us.
that we live the life of Christ, we follow the Spirit.
In Romans 8.1 it says this, that there is therefore now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.
Do we walk after the Spirit?
Hopefully our answer is yes.
And if you do, you will be living the great, normal Christian life.
Let's pray.
Dear God,
Thank you for your Word of the Bible here in Romans chapter 6 that we're able to learn something from it.
We're able to learn that living in the Spirit means to trust the Holy Spirit to do what maybe we can't do ourselves.
That you're greater than us.
That you can guide us to help us live this great Christ-centered life.
Lord, we're sinners.
We're saved through you.
We are living through you.
Hopefully we can walk with you on a daily basis.
God, help us with that every day.
as we live our lives and just be with this congregation here as we strive to do more and more in you.
We pray all these things in Jesus' name, amen.